well here's some fats you'll find hard
to digest
your stomach has a pretty incredible
capacity
being able to hold up to half a gallon
of liquids that's a whole large bottle
of coke
it's pretty hard to estimate how much
hard food you can eat
because it's processed with your teeth
before it gets to your stomach
there's definitely not enough room for a
turkey but a good sized chicken would
probably fit in it
if you were asked where your stomach was
you would probably point your tummy
sorry that's wrong it's actually up here
hidden in between your ribs
scientists believe that the appendix
will disappear eventually
nobody really knows why we need it but
some researchers claim
it might have existed to help our
ancestors digest tree bark
because it's no longer part of our daily
diet the appendix isn't necessary
and can disappear from our bodies
without any consequences
the appendix isn't the only obsolete
part of our body
wisdom teeth aren't that useful either
yeah they used to come in handy whenever
our ancestors lost some of their teeth
but the only thing they help us lose now
is the money we spend extracting them
almost all of our body is covered with
hairs even if we don't notice them
they grow even in the belly button their
purpose is to catch lint
check it out see
your liver acts as your own personal
bodyguard protecting you from toxins and
many other things you don't want hanging
around in your body
it's also pretty indestructible and can
even regenerate
only about 43 of you is actually you
over 50 percent of the cells in your
body belong to tiny little creatures
that mainly
live in your gut still even though your
own cells are fewer than microbial ones
there are on average about 100 trillion
of them in you
see you're not alone with this in mind
your own genes are less than half of
what you really consist of
if you take all the microbes dwelling
within your body and count their
genes you'll find between 2 to 20
million
[Music]
if you sleep it doesn't mean all of your
body sleeps
in fact sometimes your brain has to work
even harder when you're asleep
it needs to process tons of information
and reports
usually take a lot of time
the nose definitely gets a good rest
while you're sleeping
amazingly your sense of smell basically
deactivates at night
you wouldn't even be bothered if there
was a really terrible smell in your
bedroom
no comment the nose is probably one of
the most
under appreciated parts of the body we
wouldn't even be able to enjoy eating
without it
about eighty percent of the taste of any
food is thanks to the nose and its
ability to recognize odors
if you hold your nose while eating you
will taste almost
nothing with no sense of smell you're
likely to recognize food
mostly by texture so an onion might seem
no
different than a big refreshing apple
yeah try that and leave me a comment on
how that goes
scientists used to believe we could
distinguish about ten thousand smells
but they were wrong recent research
showed that people are
actually able to distinguish between
more than a trillion smells
we also remember them better than
anything else and smells can even evoke
some distant memories
your nose just doesn't help you breathe
and catch odors
it filters the air for sensitive throats
and lungs
if we inhale dry air the nose moistens
it cools it
and heats it if it's necessary also the
nose cleans the air of dirt
when you age your brain is gradually
reducing in size
by 875 it's much smaller than at 30
and it starts shrinking by the age of
40. it happens to everyone and doesn't
affect your mental strength in any way
[Music]
our brain can store only seven bits in
its short-term memory
don't even try to compare your brain
with a phone capacity
not even the one you had back in two
thousand five that's why you can't even
learn a phone number by heart
our short term memory functions just
like a chalkboard
you can get some information but sooner
or later you run
out of space to check your working
memory capacity
try this test ask a friend to write a
list of 10 words
and read it to you most people recall
seven or fewer items from that list
your ram or working memory is an
essential thing that we need to perform
almost any everyday activity including
basic conversations
surfing the debt and even petting your
dog
our strongest and emotional memories are
often fake
the central memory gives us the
confidence to believe that we remember
everything even though most of the
details are made up in our heads
[Music]
not only your brain shrinks as you get
older you too shrink dramatically
the bones get more brittle the backbone
gets compressed
a similar thing happens when you rest at
night your bones
kind of relax too because of this you
wake up taller in the mornings than you
are at the end of the day
among mammals only humans can walk on
two legs for their entire lives
you might think that kangaroos or
gorillas move in the same way
but kangaroos use their tail as a third
leg
and gorillas use their long arms to keep
balance
[Music]
your bones take part in metabolism too
since they mostly consist of calcium
when there's not enough of this element
in your blood bones start shedding it
into the bloodstream
balancing your body the same reaction
works in reverse too
when there's too much calcium in your
blood it goes into the bones to be
stored for later
[Music]
the only bone to have a sense of humor
in your body is inside your upper arm
that's why it's called the humerus okay
i made that one up
moving along the only bones that never
grow
are found in our ears we can hear thanks
to these tiny bones
because they have adapted to transmit
sound vibrations
doctors call them the oscular chain one
of these hearing bones
the stapes is the smallest bone in your
entire body
it's no larger than a grain of rice
our height shape of our body and skin
color depend a lot on where our
ancestors used to live
but we can adapt to new conditions even
within our own lifespan
for example if you move from plains to
the mountains
you'll eventually develop more red blood
cells to compensate for the lack of
oxygen
and naturally if you move from a colder
climate to a hotter and sunnier one
your skin will get darker to adapt
our lifespan is programmed within
ourselves they constantly renew and
divide
but they have a sort of internal timer
that stops at some point
some cells also stop reproducing sooner
than others
on average cells cease dividing when we
reach the age of 100
that means if we could find a way to
trick ourselves into turning off the
timer
we could potentially live forever
body fat isn't just a nuisance it acts
as insulation material
energy reserve and shock absorber your
body sends the most fat into your waste
region
because that's where your internal
organs are if something happens to you
this layer of fat might protect your
vitals from irreparable damage
heads up your skull isn't a single bone
it's actually consists of 28 different
bones
many of which are fused together to
protect your brain
the mandible or the lower jaw is the
only skull bone that isn't fixed to the
bone around it
it's attached with connective tissues
and muscles this is what makes it so
mobile
you can move it in any direction you
like hey you can actually
masticate with your mandible another
word for chewing
[Music]
you see the strongest muscles in your
body aren't in your arms or legs
they're in your head the masseter is the
main muscle
responsible for chewing and it needs to
be the strongest for you to eat normally
and you know those muscles that allow
you to move your ears
those are temporalis located above your
temples
they also help you chew your food
now we've got two really fast muscles
they control the eyelid closing
in fact they're the fastest muscles in
our body eyes are fragile and need
protection
so the reflex that protects them needs
to be as fast as lightning
these muscles can shut the eyelids in
less than a tenth of a second
people with double jointed thumbs can
bend them backward
it looks super unusual and very few
people can do it
still it's totally okay even though it
looks painful
it actually doesn't hurt at all for
someone with a double jointed thumb
now we recognize only purple blue green
yellow
and yellow red colors everything else is
a combination of these three
it's impossible to calculate how many of
these combinations the human eye sees
because every single person has slight
vision differences
but it's about one million combinations
on average
you see